# Agenda & Minutes

invited: Peter, Khaled, Nancy, Dante

excused: Cindy, Jessica, Alexey, José

# Discussion Topics

## Year-end wrap-up & looking forward

We discussed approaches and progress this year, assessed our current state and settle on this communication to relevant WG leads: [Data Transparency > Synthetic Data](http://52.255.142.186:8090/display/WEL/Synthetic+Data) project; and our [DV & OST > TDF](http://52.255.142.186:8090/display/WEL/Test+Dataset+Factory) project.

1.	Consolidation of similar PhUSE projects could make better use of scarce resources

    * Synthetic Data / OPDR,
    * TDF, and the
    * "SEND Data Factory" project that we chatted with in Mar/Apr this year.

2.	TDF status summarizing backend/frontend concept, as initiated, but slow progress without substantial development resource (tough for volunteers, otherwise professionally engaged, to commit). Technology choices may define/limit what volunteers can contribute. Implementations may split developers:

    * SAS
    * R
    * Python

3. Consider the team/resource models that work best, and if there is a PhUSE software development group that is progressing a product, can that model apply to a consolidated data synthesis/simulation software project?

4.	Regarding effective team models, does PhUSE still engage university partners? Partnering with some biopharma analytics/tech programs, interested in some practical project experience, could bring requisite development resources to a consolidated data synthesis/simulation software project.

This may actually break down better into two separate messages: the first 2 points to those WG leads; the 2nd 2 points may be more suitable for [overall PhUSE leads](http://52.255.142.186:8090/display/WEL/Working+Groups)

## Further details on current development (thanks, Peter!)

* Peter has established a user interface / web-based application for Jose’s ADaM generating code and also for a replication of the TA / TE generating steps similar to the steps in the TDM Excel file.
* It is a rather simple but flexible web-based application that allow the user to specify some input, that generates the Trial Design Matrix (similar to the corresponding tab in the TDM Excel file) and then in a final step creates Excel files for the TA and TE domains.
* See some screenshots in the slides [PowerPoints/TA_TE Domain Dataset Generation.pptx](../PowerPoints/TA_TE%20Domain%20Dataset%20Generation.pptx).
* Peter could re-use that UI framework to create a DM domain dataset. That would mainly require discussion about which data to collect from the user - keeping in mind our prior discussions about study details versus simulation parameters.
* This much should be a reasonable effort. The path forward would be similar, extended to the next domains according to the priority previously established. 
* Main challenge moving forward is the increasing effort required to establish and maintain momentum. This would require dedicated volunteer time.

# Next Steps
* Team to review the message outline, above
* In one week, Dante to send message to relevant WG leads
